# RTP Tools

RTP Tools is a set of small applications
that can be used for processing RTP data.
Refer to the individual manpages for details.

* **rtpplay**
	play back RTP sessions recorded by rtpdump
* **rtpsend**
	generate RTP packets from textual description,
	generated by hand or rtpdump
* **rtpdump**
	parse and print RTP packets,
	generating output files suitable for rtpplay and rtpsend
* **rtptrans**
	RTP translator between unicast and multicast networks
* **multidump**
	Start multiple rtpdumps simultaneously.
* **multiplay**
	Start multiple rtpplays simultaneously.

## Installation

RTP tools should compile and run on any POSIX compatible system,
as well as on Windows. It is also possible that your OS already
provides a prebuilt package of RTP tools.

### configure

Run `./configure` to configure the build for your system.
This will produce three files:

* `config.h` containing the `#include` and `HAVE_` lines
* `config.log` containing the details of autodetection
* `Makefile.local` which defines `CC`, `PREFIX` and the like

Read the standard output and `Makefile.local`.
If these look different from what you expected,
read `configure.local.example`, create `configure.local`,
and run `./configure` again.

The `./configure` script is accompanied by a set of simple programs
autodetecting the availability of system functions
(e.g. [`have-err.c`](have-err.c)), and whether extra libraries need to be
involved (e.g. `-lnsl` for [`have-gethostbyname.c`](have-gethostbyname.c)).

For C functions that might not be present in the system,
we provide autoconfiguration tests and `compat-*.c` implementations.
(e.g. [`compat-strtonum.c`](compat-strtonum.c)).
Please report any that turn out to be missing.

Read `config.log`, which shows shows the compiler commands used
to test the libraries installed on your system, and the standard
output and standard error output these commands produce.
Failures are most likely to happen if headers or libraries
are installed in unusual places or interfaces defined
in unusual headers. You can also look at `config.h` and
check that the `#define HAVE_*` lines match your expectations.

### build

Once the source is configured as above, run `make` to build SoX.
Any POSIX-compatible make, in particular both BSD make and GNU make,
should work. If the build fails, read `configure.local.example` again.

### install

Run `make -n install` and check where everything will go.
If that differs from your expectations, set the `*DIR` variables
in `configure.local` and go back to running `./configure`.

Install the binaries and the manpages with `make install`.
Depending on the `PREFIX` (which is `/usr/local` by default),
you might need to `sudo make install` or `doas make install`.

### Windows

Open `rtptools.sln` on MS Visual Studio and press F7 to build.

## TODO

* Fix type mismatch warnings.
* Generate a Debian package.
